---
title: A Little Video and a Big Lesson
author: Jodi Lastman
layout: post
permalink: /2536/
socialize:
  - 1,2,3,7
dsq_thread_id:
  - 113508511
categories:
  - Social Networking
---
The subject of ear piercing came up with my 6 year old. For a couple reasons, I&#8217;d rather she not. But rather than be the &#8220;voice of authority&#8221; sure to inspire rebellion, I showed her this:  


Needless to say, she thinks she should &#8220;wait a while&#8221; before piercing her ears.

What is to be learned from this little lesson in social media?

*   **Video is a very effective means of communication. **Showing is much more effective than telling any day of the week. And it&#8217;s never been easier to shoot or upload. Get yourself a little camera like this [Flip camera ][1]and shoot away.
*   **Eliminate the voice of authority.** Of course I had an agenda in selecting that particular piece of footage. But, I didn&#8217;t say a word before or after the viewing to suggest my point of view. Similarly, let good video stand on its own. It doesn&#8217;t require commentary, voice over, supers, etc. to be effective
*   **Keep it short. **Most adults have the attention span of a 6 year old. Make your point, and get out.
*   **Make it share worthy. **Sure there were other videos of kids getting their ears pierced at the mall. And I did show them just to be balanced. But I wouldn&#8217;t post those vanilla vids on the blog. Borrrrring! This one&#8217;s the most share worthy (poor kid.)
*   **Give it a good title. **Kylie&#8217;s ear piercing trauma. Now that&#8217;s a catchy title. I know what I&#8217;m getting with that one. Don&#8217;t give your video a generic name when you can tell people exactly what they&#8217;ll get when they click on the video.

 [1]: http://www.theflip.com/en-ca/